♪ Opening Song ♪
[NARRATOR] Strange things
wash up onto this shoreline.
Fruits and nuts from
distant southern lands.
Giant fish from the
deepest depths of the sea.
And sometimes, people.
Boats have been known to
wash ashore with no passengers.
[WOMEN laughing]
Let's go somewhere else.
[WOMEN whispering]
[GINKO]
Uh... Excuse me.
I've heard that there's a ferry
that takes you from here
to the other side of the bay.
Is that true?
[SHIRO]
At this hour,
I think all of the boats
are out fishing.
[GINKO]
I see.
Then I guess I'll just have
to wait until the afternoon.
So tell me, what are
you doing out here?
Same as you.
I'm just waiting.
You see, I was
separated from my wife
in a strange set
of circumstances
just off these shores.
But you probably don't want
to hear about any of that.
[GINKO]
Actually, I would.
Is that so...
All right, then.
[SHIRO] It was two
and a half years ago.
It smells like fish.
I never expected your
hometown to be so... rural.
Come on. Let's go back, okay?
Shut up already.
Where exactly do you
plan on going back to?
I can talk everything
over with my father.
He shouldn't have fired you
for making one little
mistake like that.
Don't bother.
[MICHIHI]
But... Why not?
The store was headed downhill
from the moment it opened.
They were just looking for a
good excuse to get rid of me.
But why did it
have to be you?
He told me you that were
going to inherit the store.
When we got engaged,
a lot of the other employees
became intensely jealous.
They probably made up
awful lies about me
to tell your father.
I'm sure they never expected
you to follow me out here
to the middle of nowhere.
Honestly, I didn't
expect you to, either.
What do you mean? Tell me.
Well, you're not
the eldest daughter.
I'm sure you had more than
just love on your mind.
If you want to
go back, go ahead.
This place isn't for you.
Excuse me, Miss.
Are you coming too?
Michihi...
I'll apologize
when we get there.
[SHIRO]
Sea snakes?
[SHIRO] Hey, where did
this fog come from?
[BOATMAN A]
Don't let it bother you.
We can still see the shore.
It'll be all right.
[SHIRO]
Hey! Wait!
Where are you going?
You're headed out to sea!
[BOATMAN B]
I know! Something's wrong!
The rudder's not working!
Abandon the boat!
Swim this way!
[splash]
Michihi! You too! Hurry!
[MICHIHI]
No...
There are snakes everywhere.
Snakes? Where?
Never mind them!
Swim this way!
Come on! Hurry!
[MICHIHI]
Which way is that?
Shiro?! Where are you?!
[SHIRO]
Michihi! Michihi!
Go after her!
Now, before--Ah!
[SHIRO] The boat flipped
and went under.
I washed up on the shore
of this beach.
No trace of my wife, her boat,
or any of her belongings
were ever found.
[SHIRO] Because of the
current in these waters,
things lost at sea
tend to wash ashore here.
If my wife's boat had capsized,
at least some part of it
should have found its way
to the shore by now.
There's been nothing. No trace.
And if she floated
out to sea...
She'd be long since dead.
So now...
With no proof either way,
I remain here.
Sea snakes...
[GINKO]
Nothing, huh?
Yet you've been waiting here
for two and a half years?
Pretty foolish, if you ask me.
Whether you find
any real evidence or not,
it's more than likely
that she died at sea.
And even if she
did somehow survive,
she'd have a new life now.
If I were you, I'd be
thinking more about my own life.
[GINKO] Then again, maybe it's
none of my business.
Take care of yourself.
[GINKO]
Fog... and snakes.
It all sounds... so familiar.
[MIDDLEMAN]
Here you go.
Same as always.
Thank you.
I appreciate your business.
Excuse me.
Those fish...
Are you planning to
sell them in the city?
Yeah, what's it to you?
[SHIRO] That's all
you're going to pay her?
Sir, you're taking
advantage of this poor girl.
In the city, those are sold
for considerably more.
You there!
It's okay to ask
for twice that amount.
And what makes you think
you know so much?
[SHIRO] I worked as a
wholesaler for quite some time.
It's because of cheap
middlemen like yourself
that the fishermen
around here are so poor.
[SHIRO]
Including the city's fees,
this is about what
the price should be.
Tch. At that price, I'll
just go to the next village.
[SHIRO]
Then how about... this much?
[MIDDLEMAN]
Ugh. But... that's...
It's so...
[SHIRO]
I can't let it go for any less.
[MIDDLEMAN groans]
[SHIRO] From now on, you can
always ask for that much.
I can? This much? Really?
Thanks! I will!
And tell the others
to do the same.
It'll help a lot.
I'm sorry.
I always thought you were just
some strange man before today.
You were right.
I got a really good price
for all of my fish.
Thanks for everything!
And here.
It's not much,
but we want you to have it.
Say, I have an idea!
Why don't you leave the inn
and move into our cottage?
Stay and make this
village your home!
[MAN A]
That's a great idea!
What do you say?
[WOMAN 4]
Come on!
You're more than welcome!
[SHIRO]
Hey!
[SHIRO gasps]
There's a shark!
It's right beside you!
[FISHERMAN 1]
What? Where?
I don't see anything.
Hey, Shiro!
Don't scare us like that, okay?
[FISHERMAN 2] Yesterday
wasn't spring tide, was it?
[FISHERMAN 3]
Nope.
[FISHERMAN 2]
Strange.
The water is so high today.
[GINKO]
He's not here.
Um... Excuse me.
There was a man here before.
He'd sit on the beach and wait
for his wife to come back.
Is he still around?
Yes, but...
Now he... lives here.
He's part of our village.
Please, sir.
I don't know who you are,
but just leave him alone, okay?
[SHIRO]
Hey, what's wrong?
[NAMI crying]
It's nothing.
[SHIRO]
Come on. That can't be true.
I'm scared,
but I don't know why.
You've been saying some
very strange things lately.
And the tide keeps
rising and rising.
All sorts of bizarre
things keep happening.
You stare out into
the sea so long sometimes
that it feels like...
It feels like you'll be
washed out there with the tide.
What are you talking about?
[SHIRO]
I'm not going anywhere.
[FISHERMAN 4] The tide
hasn't been this high
in quite some time.
It was about
three years ago, I think.
Remember that?
[FISHERMAN 5]
Yeah.
And there was a fog on the
water, just like this one.
I think we all need to
hold off on the fishing
until this passes.
They say that the people that
go out to sea in this fog
are never heard from again.
And after about three years,
their boats return
with no one on board.
The boats return,
but they're empty.
[SHIRO]
No waves.
Even if the boat did come back,
it would never make it to shore.
[GINKO] So it does
bother you, doesn't it?
[SHIRO]
You...
[GINKO] That story you told me
was very intriguing.
So after I left,
I researched it.
From that research,
I've learned that the boat
should return with the fog,
so I came back to see
if it was true.
That mass of snakes you saw...
No one else could see them
besides you and
your wife, right?
Yes. That's right.
[GINKO]
I thought so.
Those snakes...
were most likely mushi.
[GINKO] You've heard of
Umisen-yamasen, right?
It's the idea that if a snake
lives 1,000 years in the sea
and then 1,000 years
in the mountains,
it will become a dragon.
This story is connected
with what you saw.
Of course, there's no way
to tell how long
they've actually lived.
[GINKO] They are divided
into two groups:
The ones that mass
together in the open sea,
creating a fog-like haze.
And the ones that live quietly,
deep in the mountains.
At a glance, they both
resemble a snake.
When the time comes,
the mushi from the mountains
descend down to the sea,
and the mushi from the water
move closer to land.
They meet just offshore.
1,000 days later, they return
to their deep-sea home
to become one single mushi.
So you're saying...
That those same things
I saw before
when I lost my wife
have returned?
[SHIRO]
I'm going out there.
[GINKO]
Wait...
It's all right.
I'll be fine.
I know you can't
see into this fog.
But oddly enough, you can see
out of it clear as day.
Your wife.
She couldn't see.
Have you ever wondered why she
was the one the fog claimed
while you made it back?
[GINKO] Only those who
want to return to land
can see the shore
from inside the fog.
She didn't.
The last time I saw you,
It seemed like you might lose
your desire to go on living
if your wife's belongings
washed up on the shore.
Maybe then, but not now.
So it would seem...
[GINKO]
Well...
Now that you fully comprehend
what we're dealing with,
I won't stop you
if you want to join me.
I'm going out there
to satisfy my curiosity.
[GINKO] If so, be prepared
for the worst.
[SHIRO]
Right.
[GINKO]
Looks like you were right.
It's almost uncanny how clearly
you can see the shore
from inside this fog.
[GINKO]
You can still see it, right?
[SHIRO]
I can see it.
They're here.
There's so many of them.
[cracking noise]
There it is.
The boat she was on.
It looks like...
her body's still in it.
[SHIRO] I'll be all right.
Pull up alongside.
Shiro?
Michihi? You're all right?
[GINKO]
What's going on?
Shiro...
I'd given up on you.
Tell me...
What took you so long?
It feels like I've
been out here for days.
For... For three days, at least!
[SHIRO]
Three days?
I don't understand.
What's going on?
[SHIRO crying]
[SHIRO]
I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
I said some
horrible things to you.
[MICHIHI]
Yes. It hurt.
You were being so cruel.
But it's all right.
Now you've come to rescue me.
I'm sorry I complained so much.
Really... I didn't
mean to anger you.
I want to see your home.
Will you take me?
[SHIRO]
Of course I will.
Come on. Let's go.
Get on board.
[GINKO]
Wait...
The shore.
Tell me. Can you still see it?
Of course I can.
It's as clear as day.
Look... It's this way.
It's time to go.
The place where we
came from is there.
That is no longer human.
The mushi are transforming.
It's not safe here.
Step away from that thing.
Right now.
[MICHIHI]
Shiro?
[bubbling noise]
[FISHERMAN 7]
Hey! Any sign of them?
[FISHERMAN 8]
No. None.
[FISHERMAN 2]
It might be too late.
Hey! A giant wave's coming!
Hang on!
[FISHERMAN 2] It looks like the
fog is beginning to clear up.
[GINKO] By the time
we got back to shore,
the villagers had long since
lost all hope for our survival.
[GINKO] It felt like
we had been out to sea
for only two or three hours.
[NAMI]
Shiro! You're alive!
[GINKO] But on the shore,
over a month had passed.
[GINKO] Inside the fog,
we were most likely
on the mushi's frame of time.
That's the one consolation.
She only had to endure
three days of loneliness.
Yeah.
I'm sure you're right.
[GINKO] The next day,
his wife's boat
and all of her belongings
washed up on the shore.
These clothes
are so beautiful!
[GINKO]
Is this okay with you?
[SHIRO]
Yeah. It's okay.
The owner isn't coming back.
[NAMI]
Shiro!
Look! Look what I found!
[SHIRO]
Yes. It's very pretty.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "The Heavy Seed."